## H2 Q1- My main question is about the role of IQ in the main findings. Authors described that both CHR and FEP participants have lower IQ than healthy participants (as expected). But they did not correct for it in their analyses although they correct for the other variables that differ between groups such as medication and sex. It is an important concern as it is well demonstrated that working memory function is associated with IQ. Is it possible that all the effects shown are purely linked to lower IQ in the patients ? Please comment. 

We thank the reviewer for raising this crucial issue which have been discussed in multiple cognition studies in psychosis (Bora et al., 2015, Fusar-Poli et al., 2012). For a number of reasons, IQ was not included in the original analysis. First and foremost, we viewed it the best method to achieve our aim of investigating the global and specific features of executive functioning in CHR and FEP subjects. Indeed, as the reviewer has pointed out, neurocognitive functioning, such as working memory, is well demonstrated to be associated with IQ and IQ could have affected our results to some degree. However, the association of IQ on cognition is not consistent across the domains nor is the effect linear. Further, IQ is not associated with all cognitive domains. For example, amongst the investigated executive functioning subdomains, the planning domain, in particular, in which there were no statistical group difference, had no significant correlation with IQ (r = .034, n = 210, p = .621). Hence, we deemed it to be the best method to analyze without adjusting for IQ. 

Further, there was a significant group difference between HCs, CHR and FEP on IQ. However, post hoc analysis revealed there were no statistically significant difference between HCs and CHR subjects, but only between HCs and FEP, and CHR and FEP subjects. Thus, we viewed analysis with IQ as a covariate in our sample can lead to rather masking the cognitive deficits and chose not to include the variable in our analysis.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/Rebuttal_table1.png" alt="this is a placeholder image" caption="This is a figure caption." %}

Table. Multiple comparisons of group means of IQ by Bonferroni post hoc test
Group	Mean 
Difference	Std. Error	Sig.	95% Confidence Interval
				Lower Bound	Upper Bound
HCs	CHR	3.65294	2.70753	.536	-2.8819	10.1878
	FEP	11.68235	2.16603	.000 *	6.4544	16.9103
CHR	HCs	-3.65294	2.70753	.536	-10.1878	2.8819
	FEP	8.02941	2.70753	.010 *	1.4945	14.5643
FEP	HCs	-11.68235	2.16603	.000 *	-16.9103	-6.4544
	CHR	-8.02941*	2.70753	.010 *	-14.5643	-1.4945
Note: FEP, first-episode psychosis; CHR, clinical high risk; HCs, healthy controls.
*. Significant at the 0.05 level.



However, appreciating the reviewer’s comment, we attach below the analysis when IQ was included as a covariate, as well as antipsychotic dosage and sex. Indeed, with the additional covariate of IQ, the results became somewhat diminished and the post hoc results revealed less of CHR deficits. It is to be noted that CHR individuals do not have lower IQ than HCs. Thus, in this analysis, the executive function of CHR individuals have been rather over-adjusted for their IQ, defeating our main purpose of the analysis of investigating the global and specific aspects of cognitive deficits in HCs, CHR and FEP subjects.



Reference 
1. Bora E, Murray RM. Meta-analysis of cognitive deficits in ultra-high risk to psychosis and first-episode psychosis: do the cognitive deficits progress over, or after, the onset of psychosis? Schizophr Bull. 2014 Jul;40(4):744-755.
2. Fusar-Poli P, Deste G, Smieskova R, Barlati S, Yung AR, Howes O, Stieglitz RD, Vita A, McGuire P, Borgwardt S. Cognitive functioning in prodromal psychosis: a meta-analysis. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2012 Jun;69(6):562-571. 

## H2 2- Line 155+ (page 4): This sentence confused me as it is not clear whether the statistics refer to the main effect (which is what I suspect based on Table 3) or the post hoc analyses described in the same sentence ("HC outperforming FEP patients [...]"). I suggest either delete this second part or mention the CHR group as well.

We apologize for the lack of clarity in the description of our results in “2.2 Neuropsychological functioning tests” section. We agree that the sentence can be ambiguous to the readers and has been revised according to the recommendation of the reviewer as below:

“Each of the ANCOVAs demonstrated a significant main effect of group (Attention: F2,202= 9.092, p < .001; Shifting: F4,404= 10.5, p < .001; Fluency: F4,404= 10.169, p < .001; Planning: F4,404= 11.526, p < .001) except for RCFT (Table 3).”


## H2 3-Figure 1: It is unclear if it shows the raw or standardized scores. If standardized scores are shown, why are the controls' score not zero? In the method it is written that the scores are standardized based on the control group. Also I am wondering if there would be a way to add a standard deviation to this graph. Lastly, if patients showed reduced scores, how can they have positive z-scores? Do you show absolute scores?

We greatly appreciate for the reviewer’s constructive comments in improving our results presentation. We noticed there had been an unfortunate mistake and that it is not necessary to present the standardized scores of HCs. Further, appreciating the reviewer’s comment, we have tried adding standard deviations to the graph. However, like many other papers, one of our main intentions of employing the radar plot to represent our results was to present the pattern of the cognitive deficits in the most intuitive way possible. Addition of standard deviations to the graph, regrettably, seemed to deviate from this intention and the figure looked obscured. Thus, the newly uploaded graph only describes the results of CHR individuals and FEP patients.

However, appreciating the reviewer’s insightful comment, we have facilitated the z-score standard deviation information on our supplementary document as “Supplementary Table 1: Z-score means of Executive Function Domains” and it is as follows:


To the reviewer’s comment on the clinical populations having positive z-scores, indeed the reviewer is correct that we represented the absolute scores. We regret not being clear with our figure description and has been revised as follows: 

“Figure 1. Radar plot showing specific profiles of executive functioning in individuals at Clinical-High Risk for Psychosis (CHR) and First-Episode Psychosis (FEP) in absolute z-scores.” 
