## Dear editor, authors, 
## Thank you for the opportunity to review this paper. 
## Overall an elegant, clearly written paper. I like the idea of singling out certain specific subdomains of cognitive functions, as the bulk of the literature refers to the very complex construct of Executive Function as if it were one single concept.

## First, before writing replies to the reviewer’s comments, we would like to show our deepest gratitude to the reviewer for his/her sharp comments and commensurable efforts in trying to, not only improve our quality of the paper, but also, by providing important papers, helping us better interpret our results. We have been deeply touched and have tried to appreciate the author’s comments in our revised manuscript and in the supplementary document as much as possible.

## Some minor comments:

## Introduction
## The introduction gives a clear synopsis of some of the relevant literature. Adequate, in my opinion.

## Lines 41-43 were a little bit unclear to me.

We apologize for our lack of clarity in our writing. The manuscript has been revised as follows: 
“Hence, the currently available results are speculated to be more related to the variability in difficulty levels of the tests or to the dysfunction degree in the different subfunctions being measured in the investigation group.”

## Methods
## Participants: In the description of the CHR subjects, substance use is mentioned as an exclusion criterion. What is that like in the FEP and HC groups?

We thank the reviewer for providing us a chance to clarify our exclusion criteria in FEP and HC. Substance use was an exclusion criterion for all investigated groups of CHR, FEP and HC. We have revised the manuscript as follows: 

“The CHR individuals were administered the validated Korean version of the Structured Interview of Prodromal Symptoms (SIPS). To be included, they had to fulfill at least 1 of the 3 established criteria for prodromal psychosis state: attenuated positive symptom state, brief intermittent psychotic symptoms below the threshold required for a DSM-IV Axis I psychotic disorder diagnosis (BIPS), or a 30% decline in global functioning over the past year as well as a diagnosis of schizotypal personality disorder or a first-degree relative with psychosis. 

HCs were recruited through an Internet advertisement. Exclusion criteria for HCs included past or current SCID-I Non-Patient Edition (SCID-NP) axis I diagnoses and any first- to third-degree biological relative with a psychotic disorder. The common exclusion criteria for all participants are as follows: substance use disorder, neurological disease, significant head injury accompanying loss of consciousness, evidence of significant medical illnesses that could manifest as psychiatric symptoms, and intellectual disability (IQ<70). Informed consent was obtained from all subjects, in writing, and the study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. The study was also approved by the Institutional Review Board of the Seoul National University Hospital.”


## Also: What was the duration of illness in the two clinical groups?

We appreciate the reviewer’s valuable comment. The duration of illness in the CHR individuals and FEP patients were 2.4 years and 0.54 years, respectively, and this information, appreciating the reviewer’s comment, has been added to Table 2. Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of the Subjects as below:

“Table 2. Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of the Subjects
Variable	　	CHR 	FEP 	HCs 	χ2,F, or T	P
		(n= 40)	(n= 85)	(n= 85)		
Age (y)		20.55±3.05	21.87±3.58	21.24±2.35	2.70	.069
Sex (M/F)		28/12	40/45	51/34	3.29	.039*
IQ		108.30±11.65	100.27±15.66	111.95±13.53	14.93	<.001*
Education (y)	12.98±1.23	13.42±2.06	13.73±1.25	2.99	.053
Parental SES		2.83±.98	2.65±.84	2.62±.76	0.83	.440
PANSS	Total	NA	62.38±13.30	NA	-2.00	.080
	Positive	NA	13.32±2.81	NA	-4.08	.001*
	Negative	NA	176.44±5.65	NA	-0.68	.519
	General	NA	32.72±7.62	NA	-0.95	.347
SOPS	Total	35.55±1.73	NA	NA	NA	NA
	Positive	9.63±0.58	NA	NA	NA	NA
	Negative	14.75±0.93	NA	NA	NA	NA
	General	6.83±0.61	MA	NA	NA	NA
	Disorganization	4.36±0.43	NA	NA	NA	NA
GAF		50.68±7.31	50.68±7.31	NA	1.81	.104
Duration of illness (years)		2.35±1.75	0.54±0.52	NA	NA	NA
Olanzapine-equivalent dose (mg/day)		NA	10.12±11.29	NA	NA	NA
Note: FEP, first-episode psychosis; CHR, clinical high risk; HCs, healthy controls; GAF, Global Assessment of Functioning; PANSS, Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale; SES, Socioeconomic status. Data are given as the mean ± standard deviation. 
*Significant results are presented as: *P < .05”




## Further: How were they recruited? Who recruited them? Over what time span? How many declined participation? 

We thank the reviewer for the comment. The information on the recruitment process which is briefly explained on the “1.1 Participants” section of the Methods is as follows: 
After contacting Seoul Youth Clinic via telephone, internet website, or a referral from another clinic, the participants were recruited following an interview by experienced psychiatrists in Seoul National University Hospital. The subjects included in this study were recruited from Jun 2010-Sep 2017. Regretfully, we do not have the exact number of subjects who declined the participation since their data were not collected for further researches. 

## Statistics: IQ is higher in the HC group. It was tested with a standard test (authors to be commended for this), with undoubtedly some overlap with the neuropsychological tests, but due to covariance of IQ with neuropsych, shouldn’t this be one of the covariates in the statistical analyses? If not, the possibility of bias and confounding cannot be ruled out.

We thank the reviewer for raising this crucial issue which have been discussed in multiple cognition studies in psychosis (Bora et al., 2015, Fusar-Poli et al., 2012). For a number of reasons, IQ was not included in the original analysis. First and foremost, we viewed it the best method to achieve our aim of investigating the global and specific features of executive functioning in CHR and FEP subjects. Indeed, as the reviewer has pointed out, neurocognitive functioning, such as working memory, is well demonstrated to be associated with IQ and IQ could have affected our results to some degree. However, the association of IQ on cognition is not consistent across the domains nor is the effect linear. Further, IQ is not associated with all cognitive domains. For example, amongst the investigated executive functioning subdomains, the planning domain, in particular, in which there were no statistical group difference, had no significant correlation with IQ (r = .034, n = 210, p = .621). Hence, we deemed it to be the best method to analyze without adjusting for IQ. 

Further, there was a significant group difference between HCs, CHR and FEP on IQ. However, post hoc analysis revealed there were no statistically significant difference between HCs and CHR subjects, but only between HCs and FEP, and CHR and FEP subjects. Thus, we viewed analysis with IQ as a covariate in our sample can lead to rather masking the cognitive deficits and chose not to include the variable in our analysis.

Table. Multiple comparisons of group means of IQ by Bonferroni post hoc test
Group	Mean 
Difference	Std. Error	Sig.	95% Confidence Interval
				Lower Bound	Upper Bound
HCs	CHR	3.65294	2.70753	.536	-2.8819	10.1878
	FEP	11.68235	2.16603	.000 *	6.4544	16.9103
CHR	HCs	-3.65294	2.70753	.536	-10.1878	2.8819
	FEP	8.02941	2.70753	.010 *	1.4945	14.5643
FEP	HCs	-11.68235	2.16603	.000 *	-16.9103	-6.4544
	CHR	-8.02941*	2.70753	.010 *	-14.5643	-1.4945
Note: FEP, first-episode psychosis; CHR, clinical high risk; HCs, healthy controls.
*. Significant at the 0.05 level.

However, appreciating the reviewer’s comment, we attach below the analysis when IQ was included as a covariate, as well as antipsychotic dosage and sex. Indeed, with the additional covariate of IQ, the results became somewhat diminished and the post hoc results revealed less of CHR deficits. It is to be noted that CHR individuals do not have lower IQ than HCs. Thus, in this analysis, the executive function of CHR individuals have been rather over-adjusted for their IQ, defeating our main purpose of the analysis of investigating the global and specific aspects of cognitive deficits in HCs, CHR and FEP subjects.

Table. Means of Raw Scores or Scaled Scores of CHR, FEP and HCs for Executive Function Domains with covariates of IQ, sex and olanzapine-equivalent dose
	CHR (n = 40)	FEP (n = 85)	HCs (n = 85)			
Neurocognitive Task	Mean (SD)	Mean (SD)	Mean (SD)	F (2,204)	p	Post hoc
						comparisons
Shifting						
TMT B-A	-45.72 (23.73)	-58.54 (47.47)	-31.8 (14.79)	9.99	<.001*	HC>FEP, 
WCST Perseveration	-11.89 (7.00)	-15.84 (11.15)	-9.84 (5.78)	4.31	<.015	HC>FEP
Attention						
SST SSRT	-215.16 (104.89)	-228.69 (117.58)	-173.03 (65.58)	2.73	<.067	HC>FEP
Fluency						
COWA Word	35.94 (7.90)	31.31 (8.34)	41.33 (8.48)	8.44	<.001*	HC>FEP
COWA Category	39.09 (10.10)	32.31 (11.93)	45.50 (10.58)	11.08	<.001*	HC>FEP
Planning						
RCFT Planning	3.00 (0.71)	3.25 (0.84)	3.27 (0.76)	1.34	0.264	
SWM Errors	-20.40 (18.08)	-28.12 (22.14)	-11.75 (12.26)	15.37	<.001*	HC>FEP, CHR>FEP
FEP, first-episode psychosis; CHR, clinical high risk; HCs, healthy controls; TMT, Trail Making Test; WCST, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test; SST, Stop Signal Test; COWA, Controlled Oral Word 
Association Test; RCFT, Rey-Complex Figure Test, SWM, Spatial Working Memory Test; SD, standard deviation. 
*Significant at an alpha level of .007, adjusted for IQ, sex and olanzapine-equivalent dose.

Reference 
1. Bora E, Murray RM. Meta-analysis of cognitive deficits in ultra-high risk to psychosis and first-episode psychosis: do the cognitive deficits progress over, or after, the onset of psychosis? Schizophr Bull. 2014 Jul;40(4):744-755.
2. Fusar-Poli P, Deste G, Smieskova R, Barlati S, Yung AR, Howes O, Stieglitz RD, Vita A, McGuire P, Borgwardt S. Cognitive functioning in prodromal psychosis: a meta-analysis. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2012 Jun;69(6):562-571. 

## Results
## Results on tests of a lot of constructs and sub-constructs are presented. Thank you for the ingenious figure! But I couldn’t seem to find a reference to it in the text.

We thank the reviewer’s appraisal on our figure! Unfortunately, the reference to the figure had been omitted whilst editing the manuscript. Thanks to the reviewer, we have added the reference back to the text and have revised the “2.2 Neuropsychological functioning tests” of the Methods section as follows:
“….. Lastly, for the planning subdomain, CHR showed intermediate spatial working memory ability, with HCs showing the best and FEP showing the worst (Figure 1).”

The results and discussion sections discuss ”deteriorated” and ”preserved” function. This, in my opinion, implies repeated measures whereas this is a one-point cross-sectional assessment. If I haven’t misunderstood completely. It also poses a priori that cognitive function will be affected over time in psychosis and psychosis risk. That is a testable hypothesis that is not tested here. On the other hand, one could argue that other research that this established as a fact already. However in relation to these very specific sub-domians of exectuvie function, I am not sure it is.

We thank you for providing your valuable insight in interpretation of the results. By no means, we had a priori posits that cognitive functioning deteriorates with progression of the illness. The terms, such as “deteriorate” and “preserved”, in our manuscript, implies the poor EF abilities of the clinical populations in comparison to the HCs, the results of which were derived from the statistical analyses of CHR individuals, FEP patients and HCs. With a great appreciation of the reviewer’s comment, we searched for those particular words in our manuscript and was able to found that “deteriorate” and “preserved” had been used 2 and 7 times, respectively. Substitutions were made for those words and “deteriorate” was changed to “impaired” and “preserved” was changed to “comparable”.

For there were changes occurring at 9 places throughout the manuscript, due to limited space, we do not show below the revised sections.

## Discussion
## Phonemic fluency in CHR intact while semantic fluency poorer compared to HC: Could it also be because the executive load is higher in phonemic fluency? Since FEP has trouble in this sub-domain (as is known from the literature)? Some newer studies are: (Chou et al., 2015; Faerden et al., 2009)

We thank the reviewer for providing us with some key papers regarding verbal fluency. The key papers well described the verbal fluency deficits, especially the distinguished deficits between the phonemic and semantic fluency. We also agree with the reviewer that phonemic fluency indeed could have higher executive load than semantic fluency. In line with the behavioral results in Chou et al., 2015, our results also show lower number of generations in phonemic fluency than in semantic fluency for all groups of CHR individuals, FEP patients and healthy controls. However, it is our postulation that if it indeed is the executive load that is creating this behavioral pattern, then, it should be the other way around – phonemic fluency poorer and semantic fluency intact in CHR. Nevertheless, the reviewer’s postulation is a very interesting theory which we would very much like to explore upon in future studies. 

231-234. Regarding lateralization and interhemispheric connectivity: References are a bit old. Are there newer ones? The explanation remains very speculative. Generally, I would suggest trying to find some more solid ground to build on- here, only two (old) references are used. A newer one is (Clark et al., 2010). Further, in my opinion, if you discuss lateralization you should probably say something about sex/gender (Krabbendam, Myin-Germeys, Hanssen, & van Os, 2005). 

We appreciate the reviewer’s selection of the papers. The papers, indeed, have very interesting results with which our discussion can be enriched. We think that the issue raised by the reviewer is, indeed, important and agreeable but the sample characteristics of those two particular references are slightly different to our current study’s. Whereas Clark et al., investigated young adolescents and Krabbendam et al., investigated genetically related individuals, our study was particularly focusing on first-episode patients and clinical high risk subjects in their adulthood (mean ages of CHR, FEP and HCs are as follows: 20.55±3.05, 21.87±3.58, 21.24±2.35). However, despite there being sex differences in age of onset, illness course, neurocognitive functions and brain structure, currently, less focus is given to this sex issue. This indeed is a very important variable in psychosis pathophysiology and we would very much like to explore on this subject in our future studies, especially via longitudinal study designs. 

## Lines 235-238. The authors write: ”Moreover, different patterns of longitudinal cognitive changes are present in phonemic and semantic fluency. In a previous longitudinal study, we have reported opposite trajectories of cognitive change in semantic fluency, and their relationships between negative symptoms and functioning strengthened over time compared to baseline,” It remains unclear to this reader what the opposites are. I am sure we can find it in the paper referred to, but it would be good to clarify. Further, I get more confused when in line 244, authors refer to a study indicating stability of semantic fluency. 

We thank you for your clear and concise description of our study results.
We apologize for the lack of clarity in our writing. First, from lines 235-238, we tried to send the message that there exist different directions in trajectories of phonemic and semantic fluency. However, we agree with the reviewer’s confusion and this whole section can be re-written and be located in our other section of the discussion. Thus, the section has been changed and moved as below:  

“Currently, semantic fluency deficit is considered as a candidate trait marker in schizophrenia. A meta-analysis by Szoke et al. (2008) that investigated longitudinal studies of cognitive performance of schizophrenia patients showed that, unlike phonological fluency, semantic fluency remained stable, suggesting it is a persistent cognitive deficit that may be considered a potential trait marker in schizophrenia. Our results showing altered semantic fluency in CHR subjects and FEP patients further support this notion, together with the literature findings reporting deficits in first-degree relatives and the stability of the aforementioned results in schizophrenia patients (42, 43). Further, in a longitudinal study design for 2 years, we have previously reported persistent semantic fluency deficits in CHR subjects (44). To add more, in a recent meta-analysis by Fusar-Poli et al. (2012), a range of neuropsychological functions was investigated in CHR individuals, and verbal fluency functioning, as well as working memory, was reported as one of the factors associated with the transition to psychosis, suggesting that it may be useful for early intervention.”

## Line 253-254: “…suggesting that it may be useful for early intervention”. It would be good to have a suggestion how, also in relation to possible semantic fluency problems in other mental states- with regards to the specificity of semantic fluency as a vulnerability marker. The authors briefly touch upon this in the very last paragraph, but it should be elaborated on more here- to my taste.

We appreciate the reviewer’s comment on further elaborating on that last sentence. However, the elaborations in relation to possible semantic fluency problems in other mental states seems to be beyond the scope of our study, as our study only includes the clinical high risk individuals and first-episode psychosis patients and our results do not provide evidence for other mental states. With a great regret, we could not facilitate the reviewer’s suggestion but we do intend, with further studies, to examine and identify the specificity of semantic fluency as a vulnerability marker. 

## Line 282: “Longitudinal studies suggest no cognitive decline over time in FEP patients (54),283 or from the psychosis prodrome to the FEP”. Is there literature on longitudinal executive function separately, in FEP? (Barder et al., 2013)

We thank the reviewer for providing us a valuable paper. This study, which investigated the ten year neurocognitive trajectories in first-episode psychosis patients, reports that there are no changes of executive functioning over 10 years and that there are no associations between the relapse and executive function trajectory. With the reviewer’s considerate comment, we have been able to revise the manuscript as follows:
“Longitudinal studies suggest no cognitive decline from the psychosis prodrome to the FEP (8, 54) and no associations between EF and psychotic relapse (55) “

## Suggested reading:
## Barder, H. E., Sundet, K., Rund, B. R., Evensen, J., Haahr, U., Ten Velden Hegelstad, W., . . . Friis, S. (2013). Ten year neurocognitive trajectories in first-episode psychosis. Front Hum Neurosci, 7, 643. doi:10.3389/fnhum.2013.00643
## Chou, P. H., Lin, W. H., Lin, C. C., Hou, P. H., Li, W. R., Hung, C. C., . . . Chan, C. H. (2015). Duration of Untreated Psychosis and Brain Function during Verbal Fluency Testing in First-Episode Schizophrenia: A Near-Infrared Spectroscopy Study. Sci Rep, 5, 18069. doi:10.1038/srep18069
## Clark, G. M., Mackay, C. E., Davidson, M. E., Iversen, S. D., Collinson, S. L., James, A. C., . . . Crow, T. J. (2010). Paracingulate sulcus asymmetry; sex difference, correlation with semantic fluency and change over time in adolescent onset psychosis. Psychiatry Res, 184(1), 10-15. doi:10.1016/j.pscychresns.2010.06.012
## Faerden, A., Vaskinn, A., Finset, A., Agartz, I., Ann Barrett, E., Friis, S., . . . Melle, I. (2009). Apathy is associated with executive functioning in first episode psychosis. BMC Psychiatry, 9, 1. doi:10.1186/1471-244X-9-1
## Krabbendam, L., Myin-Germeys, I., Hanssen, M., & van Os, J. (2005). Familial covariation of the subclinical psychosis phenotype and verbal fluency in the general population. Schizophr Res, 74(1), 37-41. doi:10.1016/j.schres.2004.08.009

We thank you for suggesting valuable further readings. With broaden perspectives on executive functioning in psychosis, we have been able to revise our manuscript with substantial improvement. The recommended papers have been added in our revised manuscript, the sections of which have been provided in above replies. 
